Hello everyone and welcome to the solution to see first mystics interview question.
And this is the one where you're going to go to Seattle you called three random friends who lived there
and ask each of them independently if it's raining or not.
This is actually a question that used to get asked at Facebook and as a quick note when they were asking
Facebook they actually wouldn't tell you the 25 percent chance it's raining on any given day in Seattle.
Instead you would have to make an assumption of what's the probability it's raining on any given day
in Seattle or ask your interviewer for that.
So we simplified it a little bit by actually giving that probability.
But keep in mind in a real interview setting you may have to make some assumptions or ask your interviewer
if it's OK to make certain assumptions.
So let's try to figure out the probability it's actually raining in Seattle given that all three of
these friends said yes.
So there are really only two situations where the friends can all say yes.
So if all the friends said yes that means it could be raining and that means they're all telling the
truth.
So the probability of each of them telling the truth happens two thirds of the time.
So all three are telling a truth has a probability of two over three to the power of three you're multiplying
two thirds for each friend.
And that is equal to 8 over 27 the other possible situation is it's not raining in Seattle and that
means if all three of them said yes they're all lying.
So recall that each Sly's one third of the time.
So all three lie has a probability of one third one third one third or one third cube which is equal
to 1 over 27.
So here's a probability theory of the situation and this probability tree assumes that no rain and rain
are equally likely in Seattle on any given day.
Later on we'll see how to generalize that to any probability of raining in Seattle but if we just take
a look at this probably tree here we can see that the probability that they all say yes given that they
are lying is one over 27 probability that they all say yes.
Given that it's truthful is 8 over 27.
So the event that all three say yes happens one third of the time and this particular probability tree
because we're seeing eight over 27 plus 127 happens one time out of these times there's an eight point
nine percent chance that it's actually raining because it's going to be eight of the 27 member their
ultimate truth.
Divided by the total times of the event with all three of them say yes which is one third.
So that gives you eight or nine or one ninth chance that it's not raining.
So that's what you do for a general case where rain and no rain are equally likely.
However we actually know that the probability of it raining on any given day was not 50 50.
So let's go ahead and define a general case tree.
We're going to say that the probability that it's raining on any given day in Seattle is P which means
the probability of it's not raining is 1 minus p.
And here we can go along our probability tree.
We can check out the guidebook in case you're unfamiliar with these kind of probability trees they're
really useful when you're sketching out on a white board.
But continuing on here we just go ahead and multiply one minus three times probability that they're
all lying.
So we have all of them say yes and they're lying as one minus twenty seven all of them say yes.
And it's actually raining is eight times over 27.
So this means the probability that they all say yes for any situation using this P is going to be equal
to 8 over twenty seven plus eight times one minus 27 which is equal to 7 p plus 1 over 27 or P again
is a probability that on any given day it's raining in Seattle.
Which means that out of those times it was actually raining.
We end up doing the same mathematics we did before AP over 27.
Divided by 7 p plus 1 over 27 which is then equal to 8 p over 7 plus 1.
Just some fractional math there that's going on.
If we take that equation and plug in what we do know which is P is equal to 0.25 plug then into 8 over
7 p plus 1 that results in around 0.72 chance that it's actually raining in Seattle.
Given that all of your friends said yes OK this is a really complex problem that can be simplified.
We use this strategy of these probability trees.
So definitely check out the guidebook for more information on using probability trees.
It's a really useful tool especially when you have a white board handy.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.